CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to the Zero Play Project
If you like this project and want to make it better, please help out. It could
be as simple as sending [@donkirkby] a nice note on Twitter, you could report a
bug, or pitch in with some development work. Check if there are some issues
labeled as [good first issues] or [help wanted].

[@donkirkby]: https://twitter.com/donkirkby
[good first issues]: https://github.com/donkirkby/zero-play/labels/good%20first%20issue
[help wanted]: https://github.com/donkirkby/zero-play/labels/help%20wanted

## Bug Reports and Enhancement Requests
Please create issue descriptions [on GitHub][issues]. Be as specific as possible.
Which version are you using? What did you do? What did you expect to happen? Are
you planning to submit your own fix in a pull request? Please include a game
transcript if that helps explain the problem.

[issues]: https://github.com/donkirkby/zero-play/issues?state=open

## Building a Release
The nice thing about using the [PySide2 GUI] is that users can install Zero Play
with pip. Releasing a new version means publishing it on the
[Python package index] where pip can find it. The details are at
[packaging.python.org], but the main steps are:

1. Update the version number in `zero_play/__init__.py` and development status
    in `setup.py`.
2. Activate the project's Python virtual environment.

        pipenv shell

3. Temporarily install the build tools using pip, not pipenv.

        python -m pip install --upgrade setuptools wheel twine

4. Build the release files.

        python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel

5. Upload the release to PyPI. You'll need a user name and password.

        ls dist/*
        twine upload dist/*

6. Check that the new version is on the [package page], and try installing it.

        pip install --no-cache zero-play

7. Remove the uploaded files, deactivate the virtual environment, and recreate
    it.

        rm dist/*
        exit
        pipenv clean

8. Commit the version number changes, push, and create a release on GitHub.

[packaging.python.org]: https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/
[package page]: https://pypi.org/project/zero-play/


[PySide2 GUI]: https://wiki.qt.io/Qt_for_Python
[Python package index]: https://pypi.org/

## PySide2 Tools
To edit the GUI, do the following:

1. Download and install [Qt Creator].
2. Run Qt Creator, and open the `.ui` file for the screen you want to change.
3. Read the [Qt Designer documentation], and make the changes you want.
4. Compile the `.ui` file into a Python source file with a command like this:

        pyside2-uic -o main_window.py main_window.ui

To add a new screen to the project:

1. In Qt Creator choose New File or Project from the File menu.
2. In the Files and Classes: Qt section, choose Qt Designer Form.
3. Select a widget type, like "Widget", and choose a file name.

[Qt Creator]: https://www.qt.io/download-qt-installer
[Qt Designer documentation]: https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/designer-quick-start.html

## Testing GitHub Pages locally
The web site uses the [Bulma Clean theme], which is based on [Bulma]. The
[Bulma colours] can be particularly helpful to learn about.

GitHub generates all the web pages from markdown files, but it can be useful to
test out that process before you commit changes. See the detailed instructions
for setting up [Jekyll], but the main command is this:

    cd docs
    bundle exec jekyll serve

[Bulma Clean theme]: https://github.com/chrisrhymes/bulma-clean-theme
[Bulma]: https://bulma.io/documentation/
[Bulma colours]: https://bulma.io/documentation/overview/colors/
[Jekyll]: https://help.github.com/en/github/working-with-github-pages/testing-your-github-pages-site-locally-with-jekyll

Commit message:

Close #14 by adding rules pages.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to the Zero Play Project
If you like this project and want to make it better, please help out. It could
be as simple as sending [@donkirkby] a nice note on Twitter, you could report a
bug, or pitch in with some development work. Check if there are some issues
labeled as [good first issues] or [help wanted].

[@donkirkby]: https://twitter.com/donkirkby
[good first issues]: https://github.com/donkirkby/zero-play/labels/good%20first%20issue
[help wanted]: https://github.com/donkirkby/zero-play/labels/help%20wanted

## Bug Reports and Enhancement Requests
Please create issue descriptions [on GitHub][issues]. Be as specific as possible.
Which version are you using? What did you do? What did you expect to happen? Are
you planning to submit your own fix in a pull request? Please include a game
transcript if that helps explain the problem.

[issues]: https://github.com/donkirkby/zero-play/issues?state=open

## Building a Release
The nice thing about using the [PySide2 GUI] is that users can install Zero Play
with pip. Releasing a new version means publishing it on the
[Python package index] where pip can find it. The details are at
[packaging.python.org], but the main steps are:

1. Update the version number in `zero_play/__init__.py` and development status
    in `setup.py`.
2. Activate the project's Python virtual environment.

        pipenv shell

3. Temporarily install the build tools using pip, not pipenv.

        python -m pip install --upgrade setuptools wheel twine

4. Build the release files.

        python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel

5. Upload the release to PyPI. You'll need a user name and password.

        ls dist/*
        twine upload dist/*

6. Check that the new version is on the [package page], and try installing it.

        pip install --no-cache zero-play

7. Remove the uploaded files, deactivate the virtual environment, and recreate
    it.

        rm dist/*
        exit
        pipenv clean

8. Commit the version number changes, push, and create a release on GitHub.

[packaging.python.org]: https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/
[package page]: https://pypi.org/project/zero-play/


[PySide2 GUI]: https://wiki.qt.io/Qt_for_Python
[Python package index]: https://pypi.org/

## PySide2 Tools
To edit the GUI, do the following:

1. Download and install [Qt Creator].
2. Run Qt Creator, and open the `.ui` file for the screen you want to change.
3. Read the [Qt Designer documentation], and make the changes you want.
4. Compile the `.ui` file into a Python source file with a command like this:

        pyside2-uic -o main_window.py main_window.ui

To add a new screen to the project:

1. In Qt Creator choose New File or Project from the File menu.
2. In the Files and Classes: Qt section, choose Qt Designer Form.
3. Select a widget type, like "Widget", and choose a file name.

Another useful tool for working on this project is the resource compiler that
packages up the rules files into `zero_play_rules_rc.py`

You can update the `zero_play_rules.qrc` file by hand, or you can generate it:

    cd docs/rules
    pyside2-rcc --project > zero_play_rules.qrc
    cd ../..

After changing the `zero_play_rules.qrc` file or the rules files, recompile the
resource file. Run this from the project's root folder:

    pyside2-rcc -o zero_play/zero_play_rules_rc.py --root /zero_play_rules docs/rules/zero_play_rules.qrc

[Qt Creator]: https://www.qt.io/download-qt-installer
[Qt Designer documentation]: https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/designer-quick-start.html

## Testing GitHub Pages locally
The web site uses the [Bulma Clean theme], which is based on [Bulma]. The
[Bulma colours] can be particularly helpful to learn about.

GitHub generates all the web pages from markdown files, but it can be useful to
test out that process before you commit changes. See the detailed instructions
for setting up [Jekyll], but the main command is this:

    cd docs
    bundle exec jekyll serve

[Bulma Clean theme]: https://github.com/chrisrhymes/bulma-clean-theme
[Bulma]: https://bulma.io/documentation/
[Bulma colours]: https://bulma.io/documentation/overview/colors/
[Jekyll]: https://help.github.com/en/github/working-with-github-pages/testing-your-github-pages-site-locally-with-jekyll
